Let's see this in action.
To follow along during this demo,
go ahead and clone the code locally from the link provided in the course notes,
and open that project in your IDE.
What I'm showing here is the project opened in intellij,
and you'll notice that there are two modules.
First, you have the Eureka module and you have this items Micro-services module.
Let's look at the Eureka module.
Starting with the pom.xml file.
There are several dependencies that you need in order to support the Eureka server.
The first dependency is found here on lines 31 through 34,
and it's the spring-cloud-starter-config.
So this initializes and sets up Spring Cloud.
The next dependency that you need is found here on lines 35 through 38,
and it is the Spring Cloud Netflix Eureka Server.
So this is added in an auto configures the Eureka server.
Now let's navigate to the application.properties file,
specifically for the Eureka module,
and let's take a look at what I have here.
On these first two lines,
lines one and two,
I'm configuring the name for the Eureka server and the port, it's 8761.
This is the typical default port for Eureka servers.
Next, here on lines five through eight,
there are several configuration items for the Eureka client.
At the highest level,
I'm telling the Eureka client not to register itself as a client.
We want our application to act as the server in this case,
and not the client.
Also I'm turning on the Eureka Netflix logging,
and the discovery logging.
Just so that we have additional details in our log window down here.
Now let's look at the Eureka application.java file.
This is the typical Spring boot application file.
It's the main entry point for the spring application.
Notice, the only difference here on line eight,
I've added the ad enable Eureka server annotation.
So this annotation tells Spring to activate the Eureka server related configuration,
and that's all it takes.
I've already deployed the application to Tomcat.
You can see in the log down here,
it says started Eureka server.
It started Tomcat on port 8761 and it started the Eureka application.
Now the simplest next step is to point your web browser to the Eureka server.
So let's navigate there,
and the URL is local host colon 8761.
Now what comes up is the Eureka dashboard.
At the moment we see basic indicators like system status over here,
and system health over here,
current time, up-time, etc.
The most important part of this screen is right here.
It's the instances currently registered with Eureka.
As you can see, right now there are no instances registered under this section and
this is because we haven't created any micro-services yet or registered them as clients.
So in our next demo,
we'll actually create the micro-service and register it.